So to save when you product, we first of all have to go to products, to our products class where we manage
our list of products
and there we have an add product method which right now doesn't do anything.
Now my expectation here is that I get a product, the product which should be added which is missing an
ID though.
Now later, we'll send that product to a server and generates the ID on the server,
for the moment, I'll create a dummy ID here. For that,
I'll create a new product which since I can't edit the properties of product is a new product object
and there, I take all my product data or the title for example which I got here on the product I received
as an argument, so do that for the title, for the description and for the price
and imageUrl
and of course now set the ID to datetime.now
to string to have this kind of unique ID for now until we have a better one
and with that new product created, we can add it to our items.
So here I'll call items and add my new product,
alternatively you could also use items insert zero and then your new product to add it at the beginning
of the list
but I'm fine with the end, so I will go with add
and then of course, notify listeners to let the app know that you added a new product.
So now we can call add product in our products provider or in that provided object and therefore back
in the edit product screen, in _saveForm, instead of printing all this stuff here,
the goal is to now call that add product method.
Now for this, we can use provider of products and for this of course, we need to make sure that we import
the products class here from the providers folder and there, from the products.dart file,
so this import needs to be added
and then here, we can call provider of products and forward the context, context just like widget is
available everywhere in your state object if you remember.
So we have that context of the attached widget available
and for provider to be available, we of course need to import the provider package and there, simply
provider.dart. So with that, we get access to our provider.
Now I will set listen to false here because here, I'm not interested in changes to my products,
I just want to dispatch an action, I want to call add product and there, forward my edited product which
contains all that data we're gathering right, edited product is that property we're managing or we're
initializing here which we're then updating when we call save on the form with all these onSaved methods
here or events here on all the inputs. So with that, we can call add product and forward the edited product
and then let's say I also want to leave this page, so I can use navigator of context pop and
this will go back to the previous page which shows us all products. If you add this logic and you go
back to your app, we can test this, add a new product here,
this is a test and here, simply enter a URL. Hit enter, this worked and here's our new item at the bottom of
the list.
So adding products like this works, let's now make sure we can also edit them.